Remember how far you've come
on your data journey so far, you've built and extended a number
of models and tests from their most basic form to include more variables,
and different kinds of data. As you've explored various models,
you've encountered different questions you can answer, and
different use cases for each model. You've made the shift
from a nova to ancova, much like you extended simple linear
regression, to multiple regression. You added more independent variables
to help isolate the effect, of each x,
variable on the y variable in question. In this video,
we'll add more dependent variables, to allow us to perform new and
different kinds, of comparative analysis. The two tests will introduce our
manova and mancova based on the names. You might be able to guess,
how these relate to anova, and ancova, manova or
multi variant analysis of variance. Is an extension of ANOVA, that compares
how two, or more continuous outcome variables, vary according to
categorical independent variables. Like anova,
the two most common versions of manova, involve one or
two categorical independent variables, and are referred to as a one way and
two way manova. The independent variable
must be categorical, and the outcome variables must be continuous. Since we're still dealing with hypothesis
testing, we need some hypotheses to test. Let's return to the bookstore example
to generate, and test new hypotheses, about factors relating to book sales. The one categorical variable
will be book genre, the two continuous deepening variables, could be the number of books sold per
month, and profits from the book sales. Let's say, you're working with a one
way MANOVA test, in this case, the null hypothesis would be that
the means of both continuous variables are equal for every book genre. So, the number of books sold per month
is the same for each book genre, and the profit from selling books,
is the same for each book genre. The alternative hypothesis would be that
the means of both continuous variables, are not equal for every book genre. This indicates, that the only two
genres of books must differ for just one of the outcome
variables were examining. For example, perhaps the profit
made from self help books, differs from the profit made
from science fiction books. Or maybe the number of graphic
novels sold per month, differs from the number of historical
fiction books sold per month. In either case, you could reject
the null hypothesis, manova allows us to think of each data point is having
a number of characteristics. Which are the continuous Y variables,
that we want to understand based on one, or two sets of groups we care about,
the one, or two categorical X variables. If however, we're only interested
in one categorical variable, and we want to control for another variable. We can use, MANCOVA, MANCOVA or
multi variant analysis of co variance,
is an extension of ANCOVA and MANOVA. That compares how two, or more continuous
outcome variables, vary according to categorical independent variables,
while controlling for covariates. Let's say you're still interested
in whether book genre is related to the number of books sold, and the amount
of profit, but you want to control for the popularity of the author,
then you could use MANCOVA. The categorical X variable
is still book genre, but now you add a co variant,
which is the follower account and author has across social media platforms,
which you are controlling for. Then the two y outcome
variables remain the same, the number of books sold per month,
and the monthly profit. The null hypothesis is that book sells,
and monthly profits are equal for all genres, regardless of
the author's social media following. The alternative hypothesis, or H one,
is that book sales and monthly profits are not equal, for all genres, regardless
of the author's social media following. As you continue expanding your data
toolkit, you'll encounter more test, tools, and
models that build off each other. Identifying the connections,
and use cases, as important as you continue throughout
your career, as a data professional, I'm excited for
you to continue testing your hypotheses.